MPoL with Pyro tutorial (#173)
MPoL-dev/MPoL: docs/large-tutorials/pyro.md

In this tutorial, we will use [Stochastic Variational Inference](http://pyro.ai/examples/svi_part_i.html) algorithms to obtain the posterior distribution of the model parameters. These algorithms are quick to implement in Pyro and--important for this tutorial--quick to run. Pyro also has full support for MCMC algorithms like Hamiltonian Monte Carlo and the No U-Turn Sampler (NUTS) ([for example](http://pyro.ai/examples/bayesian_regression_ii.html#HMC)) that are relatively straightforward to use in an extension from this model. However, because their run times are significantly longer than SVI algorithms, more computational resources are needed beyond the scope of this tutorial.

+++

## MPoL and models

Before we discuss the specifics of the parametric disk model, let's take a high-level look at what makes up an MPoL model.

### Non-parametric models 
Let's start by considering the architecture of the simplest possible skeleton non-parametric RML model

> ```{mermaid} ../_static/mmd/src/ImageCube.mmd

Author: See comment on #164

                 'Omega': torch.tensor([85.764 * deg]),
               }

# initialize a Predictive object, condition on the Guzman "posterior sample"
prior_predictive_conditional = Predictive(image_model, posterior_samples=guzman_values, num_samples=1)
output = prior_predictive_conditional()
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1)
ax.imshow(output["sky_cube"][0][chan], origin="lower", extent=coords.img_ext);
```

And we see that this looks much more like the AS 209 disk. 

+++

### Incorporating the data 

Next, we'll define another class called `VisibilityModel`. This class has an instance of `PyroDisk` as an attribute and takes the image produced by that all the way to the data and evaluates the likelihood function. We could have incorporated all of the functionality inside a single class, but we thought it was cleaner to separate the functionality this way: `PyroDisk` contains the functionality specific to producing images from the Guzmán et al. 2018 model while `VisibilityModel` contains the functionality for producing and evaluating model visibilities.

```{code-cell} ipython3
class VisibilityModel(PyroModule):
    """

>     This bigger inherits from the PyroDisk model, which provided Bayesian parameters for the disk model, and extends it to carry the comparison all the way to the data, and evaluates a likelihood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This inherits from the PyroDisk model (which provided Bayesian parameters for the disk model) and extends it to carry the comparison all the way to the data, evaluating a likelihood.
```

```

To finalize this prior predictive check, we'll grid and image these model and residual visibilities using the same Briggs weighting that we used for the data visibilities. We've written the following function that should help us visualize these quantities, since we'll want to repeat this plot once we've explored the posteriors on our own.

```{code-cell} ipython3
def compare_dirty_model_resid(model_real, model_imag, sky_cube, robust=0.0):

    # convert PyTorch tensors to numpy 
    model_real = model_real.cpu().detach().numpy()
    model_imag = model_imag.cpu().detach().numpy()

    data_real = np.real(data)
    data_imag = np.imag(data)
    
    # calculate the residual visibilities
    resid_real = data_real - model_real 
    resid_imag = data_imag - model_imag

    # use the dirty imager to make images
    img_dirty, _ = make_dirty_image(data_real, data_imag)
    img_model, _ = make_dirty_image(model_real, model_imag)
    img_resid, _ = make_dirty_image(resid_real, resid_imag)

    # determine the plot dimensions
    xx = 12 # in
    cax_width = 0.2 # in 
    cax_sep = 0.1 # in
    mmargin = 1.2
    lmargin = 0.7
    rmargin = 0.7
    tmargin = 0.3
    bmargin = 0.5
    

>     npanels = 4

Author: Good point, addressed.

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.plot_pair(dataset, var_names=["disk.ring_means"]);
```

As we mentioned, the lack of correlation between any parameters is *imposed* by the simple SVI guide that we used. This could be an issue if there were strong correlations between parameters. We'll address this limitiation in the next section by using a guide that incorporates correlations between parameters. 

But first, let's see what the model and residuals look like for this optimized posterior distribution.

```{code-cell} ipython3
samples = Predictive(model, guide=guide, return_sites=['vis_real', 'vis_imag', 'sky_cube'], num_samples=1)(predictive=True)
fig = compare_dirty_model_resid(samples["vis_real"][0], samples["vis_imag"][0], samples["sky_cube"][0]);
```

And the 1D profile

```{code-cell} ipython3
samples = Predictive(model, guide=guide, return_sites=['iprofile1D'], num_samples=50)(predictive=True)

fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1)

for profile in samples["iprofile1D"]:
    ax.plot(model.disk.R, profile, color="k", lw=0.2, alpha=0.2)
    
ax.set_xlabel("radius [au]")
ax.set_ylabel(r"$I_\nu$ [Jy $\mathrm{arcsec}^{-2}$]");
```

> 

Reviewer: It would be useful to note below the figure that the disk structure interior to 50 au is grossly averaged out, motivating the need to allow correlations between parameters and thus to use the multidiagonal model.

Author: Added note about lack of dispersion in draws.

## SVI with a MultiDiagonal Model

> 

Reviewer: A sentence or two here just to reiterate what's changing relative to the `AutoNormal` guide approach would be useful.

    dict_samples[key] /= deg
    
# convert to actual value
for key in ["disk.log_A_0", "disk.log_sigma_0", "disk.log_ring_amplitudes", "disk.log_ring_sigmas"]:
    new_key = key.replace("log_", "")
    dict_samples[new_key] = 10**dict_samples.pop(key)    
    
dataset = az.convert_to_inference_data(dict_samples)
```

Because it is hard to visualize the posteriors for all 27 parameters in a single plot, we will plot pairwise plots of a subset of the variables at a time.

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.plot_pair(dataset, var_names=["disk.ring_means"]);
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.plot_pair(dataset, var_names=["disk.ring_sigmas"]);
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.plot_pair(dataset, var_names=["disk.ring_amplitudes"]);
```

With the more flexible guide, the correlations between parameters are more accurately captured. Now let's see what the model and residuals look like for this optimized posterior distribution.

```{code-cell} ipython3
samples = Predictive(model, guide=guide, return_sites=['vis_real', 'vis_imag', 'sky_cube'], num_samples=1)(predictive=True)
fig = compare_dirty_model_resid(samples["vis_real"][0], samples["vis_imag"][0], samples["sky_cube"][0]);
```

> It's hard to tell much of a difference with the model and residual images.

Reviewer: I think the difference in the residual image is dramatic relative to the AutoNormal result; the peak residual amplitude has decreased by a factor of ~2, and the structure in the residual image is reduced quite a bit. Again I'd say that a different colorscale would make this difference more stark.

Author: We're drawing random samples from the posterior, so I think, when averaged over multiple samples, the residual change is not that significant (when viewed with the changed colorbar). I could make a side-by-side movie comparing draws from the two, but this is a bit more work.

However, when we plot many draws from the 1D profile

```{code-cell} ipython3
samples = Predictive(model, guide=guide, return_sites=['iprofile1D'], num_samples=50)(predictive=True)

fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1)

for profile in samples["iprofile1D"]:
    ax.plot(model.disk.R, profile, color="k", lw=0.2, alpha=0.2)
    
ax.set_xlabel("radius [au]")
ax.set_ylabel(r"$I_\nu$ [Jy $\mathrm{arcsec}^{-2}$]");
```

> We see that there is a slightly larger scatter in the draws compared to the `AutoNormal` guide, especially around 40 au. This is because the `MultiDiagonal` guide captured more of the covariance between parameters, resulting in a greater dispersion of draws. 

Author: Added some text comparing to Guzman results.
